Hi, Jeremy. Thank you for taking
your time to record this session
with me. My name is John.
I just have a few questions with
for you regarding your IT
profession. Let's start off
simple. Tell us a bit about
yourself. What is your role?
I'm gonna use Jeremy Mora. I'm a
major incident manager over at
Qantas site was a part of the
Qantas Service Center initially
as a senior service desk
analyst, but they've moved on to
the major incident management
role my couple years after I
started with them. So basically
I'm in charge of all the P ones
that come through for quarters
it globally. It's a global
contact help desk with a major
incident management sector to
look after any critical
incidents that could affect
operations.
Brand image loss of revenue,
etcetera.
Alright. And could, could you
just elaborate a little bit what
does major incident entail for
your position there?
Yeah, of course. So our major
incident management, basically
any critical incidents that have
high priority, high impact, high
urgency, it basically gets
escalated to myself. We have a
Direct Line for major incidents
for Qantas it globally because
we are international airline and
we have a lot of pubs across the
globe. So we operate out of an
IOC and Integrated Operations
Center.
Which is the 24 by 7 four
located at Corners HQ in mascot
and anything from major network
outages to checking systems to
inflight Coms on grounds land to
Air Coms.
Uh. Anything I say. It basically
gets through to us. It's gonna
have an impact on the business.
Yes, we need to know about it
and get troubleshooting and work
on a resolution as soon as
possible.
OK and.
And what what made you want to
get into an IT profession?
I grew up with computers. I was
lucky enough to, you know, go
through the 95 to 98 to the X
days. So I'll you know,
computers have always been, you
know, big passion of mine. The
other passion was obviously
aviation. Aviation has been in
my family for a bit. It did work
in the airport for some time and
got trained up on some systems
that way. So as an end user, I
went into the.
He service uh disposition with,
you know, pretty big
understanding of how the
ecosystem works.
Umm. And yeah, obviously, you
know, throw computers into the
mix and you know, I was kind of,
you know, those really good spot
and what I like to do.
Thank you for that. What is it
to you? Ohh is general.
I see. Yeah, yeah, yeah, of
course. You know, for an
airline, it's quite critical.
Umm, you know, we got a lot of
IT on planes these days. It's
not just fuel and propellers
anymore, whether it be in flight
entertainment units, as I said
to land and air cons, it is
basically the glue holding
holding the the overall
operation of quantas together.
Yeah, you have we have a hard
time when it goes down, that's
for sure.
Yeah, for sure.
I have a few questions here from
some of my group members who are
unfortunately unable to make it
to our session. I'll share my
screen and I'll play their
questions out for you.
Sure, no problems.
Just bear with me, Jeremy. IT
issues.
OK.
Playing the question.
Alright, my name is Mike. I have
two questions that I'd like to
ask.
What demographics do you usually
interact with as part of your
job, such as clients, investors,
other IT professionals, or the
general public?
Let's start with that question.
Awesome. Thank you for the
question. Maya. The demographic,
yeah, obviously been in the
aviation industry, you know it's
it's near far and wide. So
anything and everything in
between in terms of the general
public, major incident managers
don't tend to interact with the
general members of the public.
It's more so staff that face the
customers, they'll call up and
log those incidents with us over
the phone. I hope desk will then
pass that information onto the
major incident management team.
Yeah. So we do have, you know,
lots of stakeholders and
investors come through the ISYNC
Integrated Operations Center.
Qantas does regular tours of how
we work and how we operate. So
yeah, my demographic would be
quite wide in terms of our
workers, our clients and our
stakeholders.
Thank you. And the second part
of the question here.
And what aspect of the IT field
do you find most challenging?
Thank you very much for your
time.
Yeah.
Motor problem. Miles. Another
great question. Umm. So yeah,
obviously being in the major
incident management space, you
know P ones. The main aim of the
game is to restore service as
promptly as possible.
But also after the fact, you
know restoring service is great,
but you know we always need to
find the root cause and conduct
and root cause analysis with
several service partners,
whether it be you know on site
teams or offshore teams, you
know we we all get into great
big great big conference call
and we try and smash it out just
to see what what went wrong. So
we can amend the system or
systems. So we don't have any
further outages in future.
Wonder.
Ohh.
I have a couple more questions
here from Blake. Let me play
them for you.
Sure.
How do you keep your head?
Hello, my name is Blake. I have
two questions. Firstly, how do
you keep your technology skills
up to date?
Thank you for that question,
Blake. Yeah, look, definitely AU
set set sets.
Always encourage you know your
Microsoft sets Cisco sets.
ITIL ITIL was probably one of
the best studying courses that I
could have done in terms of IT.
I'm not sure if it's on a 12
month or 24 month renewal basis
but the certification you do
need a refresher every 12 to 24
months. Don't quote me on that
but yeah, ITIL M service
generally the main I stick to
but you can never have too many
certifications when it comes to
it so the more the merrier I
say.
And the second part of the
question from Blake here and can
you think of a time you were
asked before my task that you
didn't understand? If so, how
did you handle it? Thanks so
much.
Ohh, that's a bit of a tricky
one. Ohh look.
Ohh with the.
Quantity spectrum of things you
know, we cover a lot of
applications it's over 3000
applications that we service we
don't we're not expected to
memorize you know all of it we
have in depth Knowledge base
article with quick reference
guys service instructions do
help us stay refreshed on the
not so familiar systems in terms
of scenario where I've not been
too sure look any P1 could
basically come with that you'll
have a system that's been
working fine for 12 months and
then.
One day just decides to drop
off, so again recalls analysis
with, you know, multiple service
partners. It's always a it's
always, you know, good to get
everyone in the same room and
have it run on the same page to
try and investigate and get to
the get to the bottom of the
calls.
That's a great answer, Jeremy.
Uh, expanding on that, they. How
did you get your position? What
experience do you have in the
industry?
Yep. So as I said previously,
you know, I grew up with
computers, you know, not not
developer level. You know basic
end user interface. I I was
lucky enough to, you know work
in the airport as a checking
agent for 5:00 or so years to
kind of, you know, gain an idea
of what kind of systems are
used, how they're used and why
they used.
And obviously looking on seek,
you know, for any positions
available.
Special.
Going into that interview,
obviously I've showcased my
knowledge, you know, of the
airport and the systems and you
know how everything works as a,
as a kind of ecosystem there.
And you know, definitely helps
to know, know your know, your
surroundings, know your
environment and just know what
type of workplace should be
going into.
Wonderful. And my final question
for you, Jeremy, would be where
do you as an IT professional
spend most of your time, are you
are you is most of your time
doing that root analysis check
trying to solve a priority one
priority two issue or are you
spending most of your time
discussing with customers
whether that be the stakeholders
or the clients employees as
you've mentioned, where do you
spend most of your time?
So yeah, look nice to my time is
spending that IOC, the
integrated Operation Center.
They actually have a duty
manager. That's the head of
Qantas operations that's always
on shift. It's a 24 by 7 floor.
So essentially that's that's the
help. That's where anything and
everything OPS goes down. The
duty manager will let me know if
there's a major system and gone
down before all looking at the
call. So yeah, it's good to have
them there. It's good to be on
the same page and have that very
flat hierarchy of communication
between.
Between quarters and and myself.
Perfect. Look, uh, I wanna thank
you again, Jeremy, for taking
the time to go through this
interview with me. You've been
very helpful and it's giving me
an insight of what you do at
Qantas. It sounds very hectic.
But thank you so much for taking
your time to go through this
interview with me. I really do
appreciate it.
Letter from that old John and
the rest of you guys. Good luck
with your project and yeah, all
the best. Thanks for having me.
Cheers mate. Bye bye.
Bye.